Testing Git

Config git
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "yourname@example.com"

git config --global init.defaultBranch main

git config --global color.ui auto

git config --get user.name
git config --get user.email

Step 2.3: Create an SSH Key
An SSH key is a cryptographically secure identifier. It’s like a really long password used to identify your machine. GitHub uses SSH keys 
to allow you to upload to your repository without having to type in your username and password every time.

First, we need to see if you have an Ed25519 algorithm SSH key already installed. Type this into the terminal and check the output with the information below:

ls ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub

If a message appears in the console containing the text “No such file or directory”, then you do not yet have an Ed25519 SSH key, and you will need to create one. 
If no such message has appeared in the console output, you can proceed to step 2.4.

To create a new SSH key, run the following command inside your terminal. The -C flag followed by your email address ensures that GitHub knows who you are.

Note: The angle brackets (< >) in the code snippet below indicate that you should replace that part of the command with the appropriate information. 
Do not include the brackets themselves in your command. For example, if your email address is odin@theodinproject.com, then you would 
type ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C odin@theodinproject.com. You will see this convention of using angle brackets to indicate placeholder text used 
throughout The Odin Project’s curriculum and other coding websites, so it’s good to be familiar with what it means.

ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C <youremail>

When it prompts you for a location to save the generated key, just push Enter.
Next, it will ask you for a password; enter one if you wish, but it’s not required.
Step 2.4: Link Your SSH Key with GitHub
Now, you need to tell GitHub what your SSH key is so that you can push your code without typing in a password every time.

First, you’ll navigate to where GitHub receives our SSH key. Log into GitHub and click on your profile picture in the top right corner. 
Then, click on Settings in the drop-down menu.

Next, on the left-hand side, click SSH and GPG keys. Then, click the green button in the top right corner that says New SSH Key. 
Name your key something that is descriptive enough for you to remember where it came from. Leave this window open while you do the next steps.

Now you need to copy your public SSH key. To do this, we’re going to use a command called cat to read the file to the console. 
(Note that the .pub file extension is important in this case.)

cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub

Highlight and copy the output, which starts with ssh-ed25519 and ends with your email address.

Now, go back to GitHub in your browser window and paste the key you copied into the key field. Then, click Add SSH key.
 You’re done! You’ve successfully added your SSH key!

Step 2.5 Testing your key
Follow the directions in this article from GitHub to verify your SSH connection (Don’t forget to omit the $ when you copy and paste the code!).
 You should see this response in your terminal: Hi username! You’ve successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access. 
 Don’t let GitHub’s lack of providing shell access trouble you. If you see this message, you’ve successfully added your SSH key and you can move on.
  If the output doesn’t correctly match up, then try going through these steps again or come to the Discord chat to ask for help.



Cheatsheet
This is a reference list of the most commonly used Git commands. (You might consider bookmarking this handy page.) Try to familiarize yourself 
with the commands so that you can eventually remember them all:

Commands related to a remote repository:
git clone git@github.com:USER-NAME/REPOSITORY-NAME.git
git push or git push origin main (Both accomplish the same goal in this context)
Commands related to the workflow:
git add .
git commit -m "A message describing what you have done to make this snapshot different"
Commands related to checking status or log history
git status
git log
The basic Git syntax is program | action | destination.

For example,

git add . is read as git | add | ., where the period represents everything in the current directory;
git commit -m "message" is read as git | commit -m | "message"; and
git status is read as git | status | (no destination).

As a bonus to this section, if you are using Visual Studio Code (and you should be if you’re following this curriculum) and you don’t want to get 
stuck writing a commit message in Vim because you accidentally used git commit without the message flag (-m), this command will make Visual Studio
 Code open a new tab with the ability to write your commit message and an optional description below it: git config --global core.editor "code --wait".

There will be no confirmation or any output on the terminal after entering this command. To make a commit with Visual Studio Code as the text editor, 
make sure to use the git commit command without the -m flag. Just type git commit and no message after that. Once you do this, a new tab will open. 
Now you can write your message, and provide more information if you want, right below it. After typing your commit message, save it and exit the tab.

With that out of the way, now you can choose to use either git commit -m <your message here> or git commit and enter your message with Visual Studio Code!